## Description

Coda Hale's [Metrics](http://github.com/codahale/metrics) package
makes it easy to create useful metrics so you know what is going on in
production.  In addition to showing up in the normal Java places
(JMX), [Metrics](http://github.com/codahale/metrics) supports an
arbitrary number of *Reporters* (where to send the application
telemetry to make pretty graphs).  [Ganglia](http://ganglia.info/) and
[Graphite](http://graphite.wikidot.com/) (or both!) are among the most
popular choices.

However, [Metrics](http://github.com/codahale/metrics) purposefully
doesn't come with a kitchen sink of support for every dependency
injection or configuration tool yet devised by Java developers.
Metrics-Reporter-Config aims to provide a simple way to configure and
enable a set of *Reporters* that can be shared among applications.  It
should fit most (say 90% of) use cases and avoid situations like a
plethora of subtly incompatible properties files.

In particular, it should seamlessly fit into
[Dropwizard](http://dropwizard.codahale.com/) service
[Configuration](http://dropwizard.codahale.com/getting-started/#creating-a-configuration-class)
classes.

## Use

### Maven

    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.addthis.metrics</groupId>
      <artifactId>reporter-config</artifactId>
      <version>2.0.5</version>
    </dependency>

### Basics

Current supported reporters include:

 * console
 * csv
 * ganglia
 * graphite
 * influx
 * prometheus

Note that Metrics-Reporter-Config's dependencies on non-core reporters
are *optional* in maven-speak.  That means that depending on
Metrics-Reporter-Config should not pull in "a bunch of junk", but your
applications will need to explicitly depend on the reporters they want
(such as `metrics-ganglia`).

An example config file might look like this:

    csv:
      -
        outdir: '/tmp/metrics/crazy-debugging'
        period: 2
        timeunit: 'MINUTES'
    ganglia:
      -
        period: 60
        timeunit: 'SECONDS'
        hosts:
          - host: 'gmond.domain.local'
            port: 8649
          - host: 'gmond-backup.domain.local'
            port: 8649
    graphite:
      -
        period: 120
        timeunit: 'SECONDS'
        hosts:
         - host: 'graphite-server.domain.local'
            port: 2003


And then to wire up your app call
`ReporterConfig.loadFromFileAndValidate()` (or `loadFromFile()` if you
aren't into validating), and then `enableAll()`.

In addition to an inline list, the ganglia config supports `gmondConf`
field which tells it where to find gmond's config file (ie
`/etc/ganglia/gmond.conf`) and read any UDP send channels there.  This
should make it easy to keep the java app config and the rest of the
system in sync.


### Dropwizard

Just add a `ReporterConfig` instance to your app's
[Configuration](http://dropwizard.codahale.com/getting-started/#creating-a-configuration-class)
class.  Metrics-Reporter-Config uses the same validation
implementation as dropwizard. You will still need to call an enable
method when initialization your app.


### Predicates

    predicate:
      color: "black"
      patterns:
        - ".*JMXONLY$"

Each reporter can have a simple name based predicate with a white or
black list of regular expressions.  Use this for rarely used metrics
that will only show up in JMX without flooding ganglia with 20k extra
metrics.  In practice our configurations tend to look like this:

    ganglia:
      -
        period: 60
        timeunit: 'SECONDS'
        gmondConf: '/etc/ganglia/gmond.conf'
        predicate:
          color: "black"
          patterns:
          - ".*JMXONLY$"

By default predicates operate on the "Metric Name" (usually something
like `MyClass`).  If you want to operable on the conventional "full"
name (`org.example.foo.MyClass`) enable `useQualifiedName`.

[EXPERIMENTAL] If you want to report only a subset of the measurements
that are reported by a meter then use can use the measurement options
on the predicate configuration. This feature is only available if you
include as a dependency a fork of the metrics project that supports
this feature, such as http://github.com/mspiegel/metrics.  If the per
measurement filtering is available then it is only applied once a
metric has passed the top level filter.

    ganglia:
      -
        period: 60
        timeunit: 'SECONDS'
        gmondConf: '/etc/ganglia/gmond.conf'
        predicate:
          color: "black"
          patterns:
          - ".*JMXONLY$"
          histogram:
              color: "white"
              patterns:
              - metric: ".*WidgetRunner$"
                measure: "mean|stddev"
              - metric: ".*SprocketRunner$"
                measure: ".*percentile"

### Graphite and Ganglia

The Graphite and Ganglia reporters supports the "prefix" parameter. Its value will be
prepended to each metric name sent by reporter. This feature is only available
in Ganglia if you include as a dependency a fork of the metrics project that supports
this feature, such as http://github.com/mspiegel/metrics. This value
may contain one of the following variable references using "${variable.name}"
as format.

	- host.name = the value returned for local host by `java.net.InetAddress#getHostAddress()`
	- host.name.short = same as ${host.name} up to first dot
	- host.address = the value returned for local host by `java.net.InetAddress#getHostName()`
	- host.fqdn = the value returned for local host by `java.net.InetAddress#getCanonicalHostName()`

Each substituted value gets sanitized by replacing all characters that
are not allowed in the host name plus "-" with the underscore. The Ganglia reporter additionally
supports the "groupPrefix" parameter. This will add a prefix to the Ganglia metric group.

### Zabbix

The Zabbix reporter requires the dependency `zabbix-sender-0.0.3.jar` (Maven group ID: io.github.hengyunabc,
Maven artifact ID: zabbix-sender, version: 0.0.3).

### InfluxDB

The InfluxDB reporter currently requires the dependency [`metrics-influxdb-1.1.7.jar`](http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/izettle/metrics-influxdb/1.1.7/metrics-influxdb-1.1.7.jar)
[Sources](https://github.com/iZettle/dropwizard-metrics-influxdb) (Maven group ID: com.izettle,
Maven artifact ID: metrics-influxdb, version 1.1.7).

Metrics 4.0 will introduce native InfluxDB support.

InfluxDB connection requires a few more configuration properties:

    influxdb:
      -
        period: 60
        timeunit: 'SECONDS'
        protocol: 'http'
        auth: 'troll:admin123'
        dbName: 'db1'
        connectionTimeout: 1000
        readTimeout: 1000
        tags:
         host: '${host.name}'
         env: 'prod'
        measurementMappings:
         cassandra_Table_ReadLatency: org.apache.cassandra.metrics.Table.ReadLatency.*
        prefix: ''
        hosts:
          - host: 'localhost'
            port: 8086

* `hosts` - must contain exactly one host configured. For HA see the [InfluxDB Relay](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-relay)
* `protocol` - `http` or `https`
* `auth` - `username:password`, can be empty
* `dbName` - InfluxDB database name
* `connectionTimeout` - `java.net.URLConnection` connection timeout in milliseconds
* `readTimeout` - `java.net.URLConnection` read timeout in milliseconds
* `tags` - every send measurement will be tagged with this tags map. Tags values can contain variables described for Graphite prefix parameter - `host.name`, `host.name.short`, `host.address`, `host.fqdn`.
* `prefix` - its value will be prepended to each metric name sent by reporter (see Graphite & Ganglia). Prefix can contain variables described for Graphite prefix parameter - `host.name`, `host.name.short`, `host.address`, `host.fqdn`. Please also look at tags.

### Prometheus

**only metric3 is currently supported**

The Prometheus configuration provides two options to report metrics. The first is the push gateway and the second is the metrics servlet.

* The push gateway has a dependency on [io.prometheus:simpleclient_pushgateway:0.0.16](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.prometheus/simpleclient_pushgateway)
* The metrics service has a dependency on [io.prometheus:simpleclient_servlet:0.0.16](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.prometheus/simpleclient_servlet)

*Prometheus Specific Configuration Options:*

* `job` - prometheus job name. This is added to every metric
* `labels` - map<string, string> that will be added to every metric. Variable substitution is available for label values (see graphite & ganglia)
* `type` - (`pushgateway`|`servlet`) pushgateway requires host(s), period and timeunit. Servlet does not.

#### Push Gateway Configuration

    prometheus:
      -
        type: pushgateway
        period: 60
        timeunit: 'SECONDS'
        job: 'app_name'
        labels:
            env: test
            host: '${host.name}'
        hosts:
            - host: localhost
              port: 9091

#### Servlet Configuration

    prometheus:
      -
        type: servlet
        job: 'app_name'
        labels:
            env: test
            host: '${host.name}'

In addition to the yaml configuration, you will also need to register the servlet with your environment.

```
config.getReporterConfig().enablePrometheus(environment.metrics());
MetricsServlet servlet = config.getReporterConfig().getPrometheus().get(0).getMetricsServlet();
environment.admin()
           .addServlet("prometheus-metrics", servlet)
           .addMapping("/prometheus-metrics");
```
### Riemann

In order to use the riemann reporter, you need the following dependencies:
* `riemann-java-client-0.2.10.jar` (Maven group ID: com.aphyr, Maven artifact ID: java-client, version: 0.2.10).
* `netty-all-3.6.1.Final.jar` (Maven group ID: io.netty, Maven artifact ID: netty, version: 3.6.1.Final)
* `protobuf-java-2.5.0.jar` (Maven group ID: com.google.protobuf, Maven artifact ID: protobuf-java, version: 2.5.0)

## Building

Assuming you have [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/) installed
and configured:

    mvn package

And you should be all set.

To run individual tests use `-Dtest=` and
`-Dorg.slf4j.simpleLogger.defaultLogLevel=` to change the test log
level.

## Administrivia

### Versioning

It's x.y.z where:

 * x: compatible [Metrics](http://github.com/codahale/metrics) major version
 * y: next release
 * z: bug fix only

### License

Metrics-Reporter-Config is released under the Apache License Version 2.0.  See
[Apache](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) or the LICENSE file
in this distribution for details.


### Where People Hang Out

Main Metrics mailing list: http://groups.google.com/group/metrics-user
